Let's get started on your first Network Assessment. One of the
first stages of Ethical Hacking is information gathering which
is also known as reconnaissance. It is a significant part of an attack
or an assessment.

--- Nmap

Nmap, also known as Network Mapper, is a tool used by security
professionals to scan a network to identify live hosts, open ports and
services. It also comes with additional features that allow
the attacker to find further information about the specified 
hosts and services, also known as enumeration. It is available
on different operating systems, including LInux, Windows and macOS.

-- Getting Started with Nmap

Let's go ahead and start with our first step by downloading and installing
Nmap. For this example, we are going to be performing theinstallation and 
scanning from a Linux machine. Click here to download the files for your
device. However, you can also use the following command on the terminal to
download Nmap on Linux machines.

--
 apt-get install nmap # screenshot of command and output
--


-- HOW NMAP Works

Nmap sends packets and analyses the responses from hosts. So what is a host?
A host is any device tha tis connected to a computer network. For example, computers, phones and tablets are all hosts on a network. From the responses it receives, it analyses them from different services and further
processes them check for vulnerable versions and open ports. Another essential topic to understand how NMAP sends and recieves packets is the "30way handshake" Watch this short video below to understand better how 
Nmap utilises the handshake protocol to scan networks.


---- video goes here


First Nmap Scan

Let's get our first Nmap scan done. The basic syntax to use Nmap is shown below:

nmap [IP/URL]

While it may not be illegal to port scan any URL or IP address on the internet, it may cause disturbance to the service, which can cause legal issues. Therefore, make sure to have permission before you scan any 
device. We are going to be using the following URL, which permits scanning.

URL - scanme.nmap.org

Using the syntax provided above, perform your first scan on the above URL. Your results should look like the following picutre.

-- scan result screenshot

-- Question and answers

Q1) What is the IP address that has been blurred in the above scan result?
A - Advanced Nmap scan

TBC
